Dear Dr Kramer

I hope this message finds you well!

My name is Aldo Berríos Castillo, and I am a PhD student at the University of Edinburgh working on historical linguistics, specifically on morphophonology of Mapudungun, a South American language.

In spring 2025, my collaborator, Fae Hiks, and I co-organised Edinburgh Theoretical Historical Linguistics (ETHL), a workshop which brought together researchers working at the intersection of theoretical and historical linguistics. The event featured a series of masterclasses, and was widely attended and very well received.

Following the success of this event, we are currently planning ETHL2026, a week-long summer school scheduled for 22–26 June 2026, to be held in Edinburgh. We have noticed that the current provision of summer schools tend to focus either on historical or theoretical linguistics, therefore our goal is to offer a valuable opportunity for students and early career researchers to explore their intersection

Given your work on morphosyntax and diachrony, we would like to invite you to lead a class at ETHL2026. Specifically we would like you to lead a class on Distributed Morphology thinking about how this framework can be applied to issues of change. This would involve two sessions of two hours each (totalling four teaching hours) on DM. Additionally, we are planning a separate session involving an integrated discussion for the potential of integrating DM with other approaches in phonological theory, such as Element Theory.

Please note that the summer school is contingent on funding from The Van Riemsdijk Foundation, for which we are currently preparing an application. In order to submit a proposal, we need to confirm participation from our prospective workshop leaders. 

I would be very grateful if you could let us know whether you might be interested and available. I am happy to provide further details if helpful.

I look forward to hearing from you!

Best wishes, 

Aldo




Dear Aldo,

Thank you so much for the invitation! I hadn't heard of the ETHL but it looks fantastic (kudos to you and Fae for putting together).  Typically I'd be happy to accept the invitation to teach about DM. However, the status of my research funding is less secure these days (big sigh). So, please forgive me for asking, but are you planning to include travel and/or accommodation costs for instructors in your application for funding? 

All the best,
Ruth



Dear Ruth
Thanks so much for your reply and for your kind words about ETHL!
We really appreciate your interest in participating.
Yes, we are planning to include both travel (flights) and six nights of accommodation for ETHL2026 instructors as part of our funding application.
I will remain in touch as the plans develop and as the funding process moves forward — thanks again!
Best, 
Aldo 


Dear Andrea,

Thank you so much!. We are absolutely delighted that you have accepted the invitation! It is a real privilege to have you involved in ETHL2026.

I will keep you updated as our plans and funding application move forward.

Looking forward to staying in touch

Best wishes,
Aldo